[MUSIC PLAYING]
Hey there,
Polycasters, Rob here.
A lot of you have written
in asking if we could
do a series on unit testing.
So today on the show,
I want to show you
how to get Web Component
Tester set up for your project,
and I'm also going
to demonstrate
how you can write your
first couple of unit tests.
Let's check it out.
To get started, we're going
to need to install the Web
Component Tester test runner.
The Polymer chain has
created this test runner
because we want to
make sure that when
you're testing your
elements you're
doing so in a real browser.
So that's kind of the benefit
of Web Component Tester.
To get it set up, we
can just run npm install
-g web-component-tester.
And that's going to go out
and install all things.
And then we need an
element to actually test.
And instead of
having to set this
up myself, what
I'm going to do is
go ahead and clone a
project that we've created
called seed-element.
Now seed-element is just
sort of a boilerplate element
which you can use as a
starting point, if you will,
for any sort of element
that you're writing.
And the nice thing about
it is that it already
has a test directory with
some dummy unit tests set up.
So once we've got
that pulled down,
we can just run the
Web Component Tester
command, which is just wct.
And that's going to try and
kick off our test runner.
Now if this is your first time
running Web Component Tester,
there is a possibility
that you'll see something
like this, where
all your tests fail,
and it says that Selenium's
Safari driver was not
working just then.
So what we're using
under the hood
to actually control
all the browsers
is this program called Selenium.
For Safari, you've
got to install
an extra piece of software
to make sure that it works.
And you can see that there's a
little URL inside of this error
message.
So if we go and open up
that URL, up here at the top
there is a link to a piece of
software that we can download.
It's just a little JAR file.
So it's a like a
little Java thing.
And it tells you then
to unzip the file.
And if you're not
familiar with JARs,
they're actually secretly
just like ZIP files.
So once you've
got it downloaded,
you can just change the
extension from jar to .zip.
And then double click on it,
and that will let you unzip it.
And then inside of here,
inside of this directory,
we're going to be looking
for this thing called
SafariDriver.safariextz.
So we'll navigate through
a few of these directories.
It's buried in here somewhere.
And there we go.
All right, so we're
going to open this up.
Double click on it.
And that will actually boot
up Safari, and it'll say,
hey do you want to install
this WebDriver extension?
Heck yeah.
And now we should be able to
control Safari using Selenium.
So make sure you close Safari
and everything like that.
And then we can go back to
our terminal and try again.
We'll run bower install
to make sure we've
got all our components set up.
That's good.
And then we'll run
Web Component Tester.
And what you should see,
after a moment or two,
is yes, green tests.
So all the tests that came with
seed-element are now passing.
So let's go take a
look at those tests.
Over inside of seed-element,
in the test directory,
there are two files,
index.html and basic-test.html.
index.html is where we can
create our suite of tests,
so all of the
individual tests that we
want to run in one big group.
And to do that, what
we're going to do
is we're going to
set up an HTML file.
We're going to include
webcomponents-lite.js.
this browser.js file up
here in the head as well.
That is the JavaScript
that's being used to control
the different browsers.
And then we've got a
script tag down here
which calls the Web Component
Tester loadSuites method.
And there we can pass
in an array of files
that we want to kick off.
And each one of those
files is a document
that contains some unit tests.
So we've got basic-test.html.
And then there's another
copy of basic-test.html,
but this time with a little
query string for dom=shadow.
And what we're
doing here is we're
saying that we want to test
it first under polyfill.
And then the second time we
run basic-test, we want to turn
and native shadow DOM on.
And so for browsers that do
have support for native shadow
DOM like Chrome and Opera,
that's going to kick that off.
And that we can verify
with the polyfill
and the native shadow DOM
version of our element
is working.
So let's take a look
at basic-test.html.
So inside basic-test.html, up
at the top we're also going
to include webcomponents-lite.js
and browser.js.
And that's because we could
just open this file standalone
by itself if we wanted to.
And then we're going
to import seed-element.
It's how seed-element
is already set up.
But when you switch
to your own element,
you can replace this
with your own markup.
Below that you'll see that the
actual seed-element tag is just
sitting there in the body.
And then underneath that,
we have a script tag
which contains our unit tests.
So we're selecting
the seed-element,
we're grabbing a
reference to it.
And then we have
this suite method.
And that's how we kind of create
like a context for our tests.
So we're saying hey, we're going
to create a bucket full of unit
tests right here.
And you can see there's a bunch
of test methods inside of here.
They're all asserting
different things.
So what I want to do
is take this first test
up here that says the author's
name is Dimitri Glazkov.
And I'm going to change
it so this it says
the author's name is Dimitri
with a bunch of Zs at the end
Glazkov.
And this should break thing.
So let's see.
Let's go ahead and
we'll give that a shot.
I'll switch over to our console
and run Web Component Tester.
And yes, we do you see
a whole bunch of errors.
It was expecting the name
to be Dmitri Glazkov.
Instead it got Dimitri
with a bunch of Zs Glazkov.
So we can go back,
and we can just
delete those Zs, run
it again, and now we
can verify basically that
yes, these tests are working.
When we modify
them, things break.
So everything is happening
as we expect it to.
So the seed-element is
great, but there's also
a lot going on inside of here.
And the next thing I want
to do is just kind of clean
it all out, create
my own element.
And that way I can demonstrate
how you can write your unit
test from scratch.
So now that I've kind of
cleaned things up a little bit,
I deleted a lot of the
stuff I was already
inside of seed-element.
It's useful as an
example, but I want
to create my own element here.
So I changed the
name to wait-button.
And the element that I've
now morphed seed-element into
is basically is just
this little button.
And when you click on it,
it displays a paper spinner.
Pretty simple.
So that's the behavior
that we're going to test.
So looking at my
elements definition,
you can see inside
the template I just
have a paper spinner
whose active state is
bound to an isWaiting variable.
And then I've got a button which
has a on-tap listener which
is listening, which is going
to execute a wait method.
So let's go down, look
at our source here.
And you can see that isWaiting
is just a regular old Boolean
that starts off as false.
And the wait method is
going to do two things.
It's going to fire an event
called waiting that passes
along a little bit of data.
And it's also going to
set isWaiting to true.
And that's going to cause
our spinner to display.
So these are the two
behaviors that we're going
to be testing in our unit test.
And I realize this is not
traditional test-driven
development where you're
write the test first
and then you implement
the behavior.
That is one way to do things.
But this is just the way
that I happen to do things.
Today, either one
is totally valid.
I wrote my behavior
first, and then I'm
going to write
some tests for it.
So over in my basic-test.html
file, you'll notice that,
instead of just putting the
element in the document here,
I've actually put it inside of
this thing called test-fixture.
And test-fixture is
a really neat feature
of Web Component Tester.
And what it does is it
takes whatever is inside
of its template,
and it stamps out
a brand new instance of that
content for each unit test.
And so what this
does is it ensures
that each unit test gets
a completely clean slate
version of the element.
And that way, if a previous
unit test had maybe
modified the
element in some way,
you're not accidentally sharing
state between your tests
and perhaps confusing
them and causing things
to appear broken when
really, they shouldn't be.
So this way, we're just creating
a brand new fixture each time.
And each test gets its
own instance of the tag.
Now to use the
test-fixture, I'm going
to create a reference
for my element.
And then I'm going to
call this setup method.
And setup is going to run
before each unit test.
And so inside of setup, I'm just
going to say that myEl equals,
and I'll call fixture method
to grab all the content out
of that template.
Cool.
So now I've got it stamping
out a brand instance of my tag.
Next thing I want to do is just
write a really basic unit test.
So I'll call the test method.
And in this test,
I'm going to say
that when the user clicks on the
button inside of the element,
we want to see if
isWaiting gets set to true.
Now I need a way to poke
around inside of this element
to actually click on that
button because it lives inside
of the local DOM, or the
shadow DOM, however you
want to refer to it.
So I'm going to use
Polymer's API for the DOM.
I'm going to grab my
elements dot root property.
So that'll actually let me get
access to that shadow root.
And then I can query selector
around inside of there
and call click.
So I'm kind of poking
around inside of there,
but I know what I'm
doing in this case.
I really need to
click that button.
And I can't quite do
that from the outside.
So I got to pierce the
shadow DOM to do that.
Now once that's done, I'm going
to assert that the isWaiting
property matches true.
So so far, so good.
This looks correct.
Let's switch over to Web
Component Tester, fire it up.
After a second, yes, we see
that our tests are passing.
And you'll notice that it
says two tests are passed.
So both the polyfill browser and
the native shadow DOM version
were passing.
Cool.
All now, that was
a synchronous test.
Let's try an asynchronous test.
So sometimes you'll
have some action that
takes a certain amount of time.
It could be just
the next frame, it
could be a thousand
milliseconds, whatever.
And in those cases,
you need a way
to signal to the testing
library-- which in this case,
Web Component Tester under
the hood is just using Mocha.
So you need a way to
signal to Mocha hey,
my test is finally
finished, and now
you can move on
to the next test.
And to do that, Mocha
actually gives you
this little method called done,
which you can call whenever
you've got an async test.
So what I'm going to do is
instead of this next test,
I'm going to be
listening for the event
that my element fires.
And you'll see that in the
function to kick off my test,
I've passed a done argument.
And that's actually a little
signal to Mocha that hey,
this is going to
be an async test.
And then inside
of that test, I've
just added an event
listener to my element.
I'm listening for
its waiting event.
And then I'm asserting that
the detail message that
comes from the equals
Time for some meditation.
And after all of
that is finished,
I finally just call done.
And that will allow the system
to wrap up the unit test
and move on to the next
one if there is one.
And just like the
previous test, I'm
going to use Polymer's
DOM API to actually click
the button that's
inside of my element.
All right, let's
give this one a shot.
So run Web Component Tester.
And it fires up
all our browsers.
And yes, we're done.
All right, so now you've
got your first couple
of tests passing.
But there's a lot more that I
want to cover on this topic.
So leave me some
comments down below.
Let me know what you
want me to cover next.
Also, if you have
questions, you can
ping me on a social network of
your choosing at #AskPolymer.
As always, thank you
so much for watching.
And I'll see you next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]